Uh, Um, so today's text is going to
be really neat, as we do have our
eighth and fifth grade, uh, in here.
So, again, thank you so much
for being part of worship today.
Um, today's text is going
to be Ephesians chapter six.
We're going to be just at
the first three verses.
So, if you have your Bible
with you, you can turn to that.
If you don't have your Bible with
you, you can pick up one on your
way out on the next step of six.
If you'd like to have a Bible in your
phone, which is the greatest way to
carry a Bible, because I'm, if you're
just like me, I'm gonna figure out
how to type, is, um, It's the new
version of Bible that you should all
know about, which is really good.
I use it for daily devotions,
um, anything in orthography.
Uh, but Ephesians chapter 6, verses
1 through 3, and here it is what
we're really doing is we're really
looking at how, um, children await
their parents, which is a great
reason why our kids are here.
I'm hoping that, uh, they get as much
out of this as their parents will
because it's also speaking to, um,
older, um, adults as well, uh, sitting
or obeying or following their parents.
And we'll kind of to start off this
way is, um, and I'm hoping, again,
since my kids, I talk to my kids
tangentially, but if kids, if you guys
are looking this way, how many of you
at all have your parents telling you
to do something you don't want to do?
By the way, raise hands.
Okay, give me a couple of examples, kids.
What have your parents told you
to do that you didn't want to do?
What?
Lean in a room.
That's a good one.
What up?
Lean in a room.
Ride on one of these.
Save money.
That's a good one.
Right?
So, I think you guys did this right.
Is there sometimes where our parents,
as any adult that you guys have grown
up, your parents were telling you to do
something that you didn't want to do?
Wanted to do.
Right.
And it was difficult because you
felt like there was a great reason
why my son is the greatest at this.
He usually, every time I tell him
to do something, he's got great
reason why he shouldn't have to do.
And he, I may a lawyer goes, he's right
sometimes, but one you guys an example
of a time where, uh, my grandma actually
know my mom and dad and my grandma.
Um, told me I could do something,
but I really didn't know what
I was going to do with it.
So my brother is 6 years older than me.
And, uh, you guys probably
understand this, but we have
siblings that are older than me.
And my brother would pick on me.
You know, older brothers tend
to pick on older brothers.
I don't know if you guys have
that happen up here at all.
Me, not absolutely.
Okay?
But the little brother, me...
Finally was set up with it,
so I went to my grandma.
And I said, me, Nicole Delaney, it's
me, can I use this Google Callback?
She said, sure.
So I grabbed that thing my
brother, trying to get it.
The Google Callback.
Okay, I don't know if you guys
would, uh, want to do that,
maybe with your older sibling.
Here's the thing.
That's not what she had thought I
was going to use it for, and she
started to tell me, You can't do that.
And I'm like, Why?
It's pick up.
And, and I didn't even really want
her to take it that way for me.
Punishment tell you is, I think all
of us understand the idea of it's
difficult, especially with kids.
To be told what to do,
especially when you don't agree.
So I'm hoping today, kids, and for
parents, and for grandparents, that
today's text is kind of helpful in this.
And so, um, as we walk through this
text together, I want to catch you up.
Recently we've been talking
about, um, someone who is
filled with the Spirit of God.
Someone who would claim to
have a relationship with Jesus.
Should have evidence that they have
a relationship with Jesus, right?
I mean, you guys agree with that?
If you believe that you can give your
life to Jesus, you should have evidence.
So we've been talking about, there's
three evidences that Paul talks about,
and Paul's the writer of this book,
that we should have as a believer,
someone who's filled with the Spirit.
It's one who is joyful, one who is
thankful, and one who is submissive.
And verse 21 of chapter 5 actually
says this, just so you guys know, it's
one another in the view of Christ.
And so, in order to submit to
one another, it has to be in
the context of relationships.
So Paul kind of said, hey, so we're
supposed to submit to one another.
But then he's not going to just leave
it there, he's going to say, hey, let's
talk about the types of relationships.
That submission should be practiced.
And the first thing we did, which was the
last week, is something We made it happy.
We went and asked, why is it customs?
We should submit it to one another
as soon as it's submitted to us.
And so we learned that.
And honestly, I feel like it was a really
good reminder for me that if there's
issues Or struggles within my marriage.
I should be blaming another person.
I should be going to the Lord
to give my life to the Lord.
Before I come back and know what
that means or whatever it is.
Um, and so we learn that in the
marriage that we are actually one.
We are joined together as one.
We are fighting and disagreeing.
Actually fighting against ourselves.
Uh, it's a losing battle.
Um, but so we've learned this, so we
should be submissive in our relationship
with each other in marriage within today.
We get to, to look at this text from
the people of how children are so be
submissive to their parents and why,
why be submissive to their parents
or obey their parents are, follow
their parents and what they say.
And again, um, Paul's
speaking to believers.
And there's a reason why it would be
important for kids to understand the
relationship with Jesus, why they would
probably fall in love with their parents.
And so, um, here, here's
what's going on in Paul's day.
This is a letter that was wrote to a
specific church, the church of Genesis.
And there will be children present,
but we, we need to read this letter.
And so this is why it's important,
kids, why you're here today.
So let's read Ephesians
chapter 6, verse 1 through 3.
And it says this, Children,
obey your parents and obey
God, because this is right.
Honor your father and mother, which is
the first commandment, with a promise.
So that it may go well with you, and that
you may have a long life in the Lord.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, thank you for giving us
this opportunity to give you your word.
To come out here today.
That all of us can live here today with
something that will apply to our lives.
Because we know your word is true.
And that as we hear it, Lord, that
it does, um, Give us great wisdom,
Lord, on how to walk, and be in
here in his first verse is that
because they are Christians in the
Lord.
to, again, believers.
So he is speaking to children who
have a relationship with Jesus.
So this is not me saying, everybody
in here, has a relationship with
Jesus, or every kid that has a
relationship with Jesus is blessed.
To be honest, obedience starts
with a relationship with Jesus.
If you would say this, um, a
child has disobedience, they're
disobedient as a parent, they've
never been blessed with Jesus,
that's kind of what you would expect.
Just being honest, um, I'll tell
you this, as wrong or right.
So we have to look at
this as policy made to believers,
the children who have to Jesus.
And so, the first reason why they should
go to their parents is because they
have given their lives to Jesus, right?
Um, and so, when we think about this
relationship, and this is, this was
interesting, when we think about
last week's relationship where the
wives and the husbands submitted
to perform a third and the children
submitted to obey, here's the perfect
picture of a family, um, who submits.
And so, the Christian home should
look like this, the wives submit to
the husbands and unto the Lord, and
the husbands love his wife, even as
Christ loved the church, and children
obey their parents and the Lord.
So I don't know about you guys,
but that seems like a show I've
watched where I'm like, there's
no way to watch this perfect.
There's no way to watch this perfect.
And here's what we need
to do to watch this.
Is tangible.
It is tangible.
But, because we know why this is
hard, right, we have to understand
that what Paul is saying here is he's
speaking to people who have given
their lives to Jesus, or children
who have given their lives to Jesus.
So this is where he says, um, children
don't make an appearance in the Lord.
That's where it starts.
So kids, um, today, you should
This is speaking to, why
would you obey your parents?
This is speaking to, you
know, One, because you didn't
give your life to Jesus.
And if you have given your
life to Jesus, maybe that's the
question you do have for the kids.
Well, how have I given my life to Jesus?
And what does that mean for all of them?
Maybe as a parent, you're saying,
How do I give my life to Jesus?
Because if my kids are supposed to
obey and go to the Lord, then maybe
I can set the example to do that.
And that's actually the rule
we saw about, um, like, parent
child litigation later on.
That idea behind really just giving,
Ourselves up to the Lord, submitting,
uh, to Him to raise our children.
And so, what does it mean in your way,
just to kind of say this in, in this,
uh, simple idea is to do or follow
whatever you're asked to by your parents.
Um, one of the questions that is greatly
asked is what if your parents are asking
you to do something that is sinful?
Well, obviously that's something
that if you're in the Lord,
you wouldn't want to do, right?
And you could say that.
Um, and not in this way, but this
is speaking to one, when we're
talking about raising a child.
So let me ask this, kids.
Um, have your parents ever told you not
to do something that you did anyways?
Anybody?
So we're all kids, right?
We're all kids.
Yes.
Okay.
How many of y'all either broke something,
hurt yourself, after the meeting?
Anybody.
Okay.
So this is the part where we look
and we say, okay, we understand
our parents are pretty smart on why
they wouldn't haves do things right.
Why did, there's a reason why they say
don't do this, and in most times it's
kids' is because of the protecting.
So let me, let me step out there.
Every adult woman, we have a healing
father, who in his word, gives us wisdom.
And things that says, don't do this.
Not because he's trying to stop you from
having fun and all these rare things.
You It's not good for you.
It's not best for you.
And so when you go ahead and say
forgive me God, I don't care what your
words are, I'm going to go ahead and
do it, and then you see the result
of it, whether it's heartache, or
struggle, or pain, you realize your
heavenly father knows more than you.
It's the same exact picture.
Because it's easy to look
at our kids know this.
I'll say something to my kids, yet
I won't live it out in my father.
And I go, okay, if I've told
them to do this, obey me.
But I'm not obeying my father
and what example am I setting?
It's challenging.
So if you want your kids, I'm gonna
ask the parents this question, if you A
lot of times we put pressure on our kids.
Do this.
Be right.
Sit up straight.
This is taking class.
Are we sitting in a table?
Sorry, let's just talk.
So, again, when you look at this, we
know that Paul gave us four reasons why
children should obey their parents, right?
First is because they are Christians
in the Lord, that they follow Jesus,
and so they should also follow their
parents, because God knows everything.
But the second one was that,
oh, the answer's right.
So he says this in the first verse,
again, children obey their parents,
again, in the Lord, Because this is right.
So I'll go back to this.
Um, I'll go talk to some kids.
How many, how many kids think that
your parents are smarter than you?
Anybody think that your Because
some of you think that your
parents are smarter than you.
Here's the truth, they are.
Okay, they are.
So, since parents brought the
children into the world, So, if
you're here, it's because your
parents brought you into the world.
They are smarter than you.
They have more knowledge.
They can live longer than you.
And so it is right to obey your
parents because of that fact.
You know, it's, it's, it's, in
society today, though, this is
usually the picture of, if someone
was to rewrite this verse based upon
today's society, it would say this.
Parents obey their children in
the Lord, for this is, will keep
them happy and at peace at home.
And parents, it's not right to love them.
Kids dictate the rules, and it's
not because they're just being, you
want them to be raised right and to
respect authority, to love the ruler.
So discipline, kids, I know
you're going to like this, but
it's the same thing for adults.
Discipline is good.
God says he chases what he disciplines
and those who he loves so much.
Can't you This is
my life, this is a car once again.
I love you, this is a kid.
Um, so parents, here's,
here's to me, here's to me.
God bless.
Because parents actually play a role.
of God and the kids lives.
Don't get what I'm saying wrong with this.
Not that they are God.
But in actual place, the kids,
when they submit, they follow
the parents and they obey them.
They're actually being crossed.
If you guys remember last week, those
were here last week when we talked about
why submit to your husbands add unto the
Lord when the wife submit to her husbands,
she's actually submitted to cross.
So when the kids, as you are.
Obeying parents, you're
really obeying God.
Like, to me, it's a
bigger picture sometimes.
It's more than just obeying my parents.
It's really obeying God.
Because that helps me in knowing
why I should follow my parents.
Um, but it's dependent upon us parents.
And I'll start speaking to myself.
It's a while.
Um, and here's the thing, there's
times I don't want to to, right?
Um, but they need it because
they, I needed it as a kid.
And God even knows that
I needed it as an adult.
There's a time for God
to discuss it with me.
And if you want to know how I got past
that, um, I'll tell you, there's times
where God gets me to worship, right?
Not physically, right, but...
Emotionally realizing sin in my
life and how I really been in.
So, um, so me, Paul continues
to build on us, right?
So he gets four weeks into the
first two as if they're a Christian
in the Lord, one if obedience is
right, and two is in verse two.
It says, honor your father
and mother, which is the
first commun with the promise.
So, when you actually look
at this text, that example is
actually from the Old Testament.
It's actually the 5th commandment in
the kids, it's the 1st commandment.
Um, and so it still applies to,
this is the fun part, parents.
It applies to you.
Grandparents, it applies to you.
Kids, it applies to you.
Because we're honoring your parents.
This can happen even
after you were raised.
So the question is, what
does honor look like?
What does honoring your parents look like?
So it could mean showing respect
and love for them, that you care
for them, um, ask them to be good
parents, um, bringing them honor by
how you live, how you treat people.
And one of the things that I'll
often, my parents say, force a crowd.
You know what they're saying?
It's that you're honoring
people by how you live.
And the part where I'll
attempt to take a step back.
I know that not everybody in here
is really just amazing parents.
If you grew up in a struggling home,
I don't want you to sit there and say,
Well, if God is taking away my dad,
then I don't know what he can do with him.
And that's the, the truth is, God,
God is taking away my, your dad.
My dad, or her dad.
There's a number of that out there.
God is greater than that.
He actually can love you perfectly.
He actually can give
you love consistently.
He actually won't abandon you.
So if you're dealing with that,
you better deal with that.
Just know that that's not who God is.
And that's why, at times, when we
sit here and say, Why do we follow?
Jesus, and why did we
give our lives to God?
It's because maybe you did
have that absence in your life.
And you need a Father, Heavenly Father,
to take the place of your Father.
Where he missed out.
Um, and that's what,
how good God is, right?
So we, we see, again, just kind of
building on this, is what does it
look like to honor your parents?
And I'm just beginning to think
about this, if anybody can remember
the story, where like, Jesus, Their
family was traveling back, and Jesus
wasn't there when they got back.
Anybody remember that?
And so, most of us, that's
probably, like, did Jesus not
follow this command of his parents?
It depends on how you look at it.
But you know what Jesus did is he
actually showed honor to his parents
all the way until they got older.
He showed honor by following
him and obeying him.
So Jesus actually set the example
for us to, I mean, he was truly
God, so why couldn't he to?
He still submitted their leadership.
So as, as Jesus does that, we
get a great example with them.
And so, let me just ask this question.
So let's start with the kids.
Kids, do you guys want to do
what Jesus wants you to do?
Yes.
Do you?
Does anybody, any of the kids want
to do what Jesus wants you to do?
Anyone?
Hey, adults, do you want to
do what Jesus wants you to do?
You want to follow Jesus?
See, I would say most of
us would say that, right?
He says to honor your parents.
Honor your parents.
Now, that looks different.
That looks different for everybody.
So let me just share this.
It doesn't mean that you agree
with them in everything they do.
Let me be clear with that.
It doesn't mean you agree with
them in everything they do.
This may be speaking more to adults
and children because sometimes kids,
again, your parents are having you
do things you don't want to do, you
don't fully agree with them, but you
trust them because you trust God.
So, we struggle with that, right?
It doesn't require us, um, to basically
accept everything that they do.
It's okay.
But it does require us to find
him and respect him out in
a manner worthy of the Lord.
And so I'll look at this.
Jesus set the example of sacrifice.
Right?
Submitting himself to die for our sins.
For us to have a relationship with him.
If Jesus can submit to his Heavenly
Father, And besides, crossing the
cross for our sins, we can find a
way to submit to our parents and
sometimes put away our differences to
love them, to respect them for where
they are, no matter what they've done.
Again, it's not placing them back
in your life as though they've
not done anything, but it's, it's
loving them enough to forgive them.
I'll, I'll kind of push that out there.
Forgiveness.
That's business.
If you hold unforgiveness in your
heart, it is the root of evil.
Um, I lived for 23 years.
Most of it was probably about
the last 10 or 15 years before
I unforgiveness towards someone.
If it's towards your parents, don't.
You know, forgiving someone is not really
letting them out of whatever they did.
It's really releasing you to live free.
And getting out from under the
burden is, is important for you.
So, parents, what does it look like for
you in to, if you really want to follow
the Lord, you want to be a follower of
Jesus, and you want to set the example
for your kids, honor your parents.
Honor your parents and you.
Honor your parents as an adult,
and then talk to them about it.
So, I know we're getting close
to the end of that answer.
We're on the fourth thing here.
Indicate four reasons that Christians
in the Lord, when we speak to them,
you know, children should obey their
parents because they're Christians
in the Lord, that obedience is right.
Obedience is a command, right?
It's not just a suggestion.
It's a command.
And when God commands something, we
should desire to follow Him, right?
We didn't all just, I said all
of us, but a lot of us said, Hey,
yeah, we want to follow Jesus,
so we want to obey His commands.
The last is it brings blessings.
This is for our kids.
How many of y'all like gifts?
How about adults?
If there's a reward in it,
I'm more likely to do it.
I don't know about y'all.
I mean, I'm that, that person that if
somebody says there's a prize at the
end of the tunnel, So we like this.
So obedience brings a blessing.
So he says this, it's the first
commandment of the promise.
So that it may go well with you.
And that you may live a
long life in the land.
So kids, I don't want you to miss this.
There's a blessing and reward
in obeying the parents.
Um, He says this, he says the
commandment has a promise.
It's, it's with two promises, right?
A child who honors the parents
can receive, uh, two things.
It says it's well with him and that
he can live a long life on earth.
And when I first read this verse,
So are we saying any kid that dies
young did not honor the parents?
No.
That's not what this means.
Uh, that's not meaning that at all.
But basically it's such principle.
So let me give you an example.
Go back to when we all said,
Hey, we were, we told not to do
something, but we did it anyways.
There's times where I dis so obey my
parents and I'm lucky to be alive today.
Not everybody gets that chance.
Because sometimes they do, right?
And this is the part where we look at.
Is there's a blessing.
What's the blessing?
What's the principle in it?
As parents, children obey their
parents more than they want them.
They'll escape a great
deal of sin and danger.
Thus avoiding things that could
threaten or shorten their life.
Right?
It's a positive influence.
So kids, when you obey
your parents, you escape.
So parents, I would say this, when you
discipline your kids and whenever you
want them to bring honor to you, and
you are modeling that for them, it's
because you want them to live a life.
That is long, that is earth, that is
well, that, that's not short lived.
And so, how does this apply all of us?
Again, it could be easy for you to
sit here and say, Hey, you know,
I'm just an adult, there's nothing
that matters in this for me.
Or maybe kids are like,
I wish I was in class.
What is this?
It's important for children
to learn early to honor their
father in the name of the Lord.
It's just important.
Uh, because again, if you're setting an
example for the kids and they don't want
to honor and respect you, there's a great
chance they will not honor and respect
their father in the name of the Lord.
And so we have to set
the example for them.
But I do want to mention this, the Holy
Spirit, this is what we've been talking
about, someone who is Spirit filled.
Someone who is a follower of Jesus,
the one who lives inside of you, if you
are saved you can honor your parents.
It's called self control, that's part
of the fruit of the spirit, right?
Sometimes it's that self
control we need as kids, right?
Even as adults.
So what's our response?
First is, the only way that we'll be able
to honor our parents more is if we, this
is speaking directly to kids, the only
way you'll be able to honor your parents.
And the Lord is if you have a relationship
with Jesus, and so kids, if you've
given your life to Jesus and you keep
dishonoring your family or your, your
mom and your dad and you keep disobeying
and not following them, then you need
to ask God to forgive you and to to give
you the ability to overcome that sin in
your life to, to start following him.
Right.
Maybe, kids, it's because you haven't
given your life to Jesus that you
do need to give your life to Jesus.
Maybe that's where it starts.
So, I'll just encourage you, if
you what it means, kids, to follow
Jesus, ask your parents next to you.
Say, I want to know what it means to
follow Jesus, because I want to obey you.
I want to follow you.
Friends, maybe this is why
God is speaking to you today.
Are you setting the example
and honoring your own parents?
Are you setting the example and
obeying your Heavenly Father?
Aren't you disciplining your children
the way God has called you to?
And maybe if you aren't, maybe
your kids are still young.
What's your response?
Maybe it's to repent and turn
if you haven't been doing that.
Or if you have kids that are really
young, it's that you're praying right
now for the Lord to give you wisdom.
To be a model parent, to respect
your parents, and to discipline
your kids as you behave around them.
And so maybe parents usually
haven't given their life to Christ.
Maybe you're just a grandparent at
this point, you haven't given your life
to Christ, and you want to be a model
parent, grandparent, for your kids.
What's your response?
Giving your life to Jesus.
And if you've given your life to
Jesus, it's asking God to give you
wisdom on how to be that example.
For those in your life.
God's word is truth, guys.
God's word is truth.
So during this time, we're
going to have an invitation.
Here's what an invitation is.
A lot of times when we talk about
invitations, it's not really
explained really well at all.
But an invitation is this opportunity
to invite you in to consider
what God spoke to you today.
So we, we spent some time worshiping,
but in the moment of worship, really
it's you taking time to praise a God.
How does this apply to me?
And so I gave you all those questions for
you to process through and think through.
So maybe it's one of those that
you're giving to God, God help me.
Um, help me be a better father, help
me be a better child to my family.
Um, via obeying my parents, whatever
it is, I want you to ask God that.
When kids begin, if you do have a
question about giving your life to
Jesus, come by me, come by your parents,
and say, hey, you want to know Jesus.
Maybe it's going to your
parents and saying sorry.
Adults, maybe it's you
calling your parents when you
leave and saying, I'm sorry.
I don't know what it is, but God loves us.
So during this time of meditation,
take time to pray and say, The most
important relationship you can have in
your life is a relationship with Jesus.
Everything you do relies
on that relationship.
So if you don't have that
relationship, you can't come see me.
I would love to talk to you.
So let's pray.
We're Jesus.
We love you.
God, do what only you can do.
Um, Lord, open our hearts
to what you spoke today.
How you speak to us through your word.
And Lord, I just pray that,
um, we leave here changed.
Lord, if it's the kids they
sat next to really worried,
or missed out on the cross.
Lord, again, they hurt something
today that struck them.
Lord, as they need to ask for forgiveness.
Lord, for disobeying their parents.
Or maybe it's...
We need to give the words to
Jesus, Lord, I pray they can do it.
Lord, I pray if it's, uh, an adult
in this room, Lord, if it's a
parent, a grandparent, or a future
parent, Lord, I pray that they are
asking you, Lord, to, uh, move their
hearts to, uh, set the example and
be an amazing parent in the future.
God, we love you, and we thank
you for all that you'll do and
uh, we pray this in your name.
I can't stand it as it's the
same as last time.
Peace that flows like a river
Washing over Fount of heaven, love
of Christ Um, uh,
love of Christ Yeah.
Yeah.
Take this life deeply and burn
the fearless soul of your heart.
Go deep of your way to
see your kingdom come.
Thank you, Jesus.
Thank
you, Jesus.
Set me
free, Christ my Savior.
Rescue me.
Thank you, Jesus, for setting us free.
Thank you for rescuing us from death.
Teaching us these things is for you.
And we're going to pray that
you would just bless us as we
leave from this place.
We are so sorry.
Alright, I think we're
getting on the littlest.
Make sure everybody's out
here before we move on.
And, uh, have our child's education.